# Habit Tracker

## This is a habit tracking app that allows you to track your habits and see your progress over time. It uses the Pixela API to store your data.


### To use this app, you will need to create an account on [Pixela](https://pixe.la/). Once you have created an account, you will need to create a graph. You can do this by clicking on the "Create a new graph" button on the left side of the screen. You will need to enter a name for your graph, a unit, and a color. You can also choose to set a goal for your graph. Once you have created your graph, you will need to create an API token. You can do this by clicking on the "Manage your own profile" button on the left side of the screen. Then click on the "Generate Token" button. You will need to enter a name for your token and choose the permissions for your token. Once you have created your token, you will need to copy it and paste it into the `TOKEN` variable in the `main.py` file. You will also need to enter your username and graph ID in the `USERNAME` and `GRAPH_ID` variables in the `main.py` file.


### How to make API authentication?
There are three ways generally, one is API key, the second X-Api key HTTP Header, the third as the authorization http header. The reason why the latter two are not recommended is that they are not as secure as the API key. API key isn't visible in logs or if they are doing requests sniffing. 

#### API key
The API key is a string of characters that is used to authenticate the user. It is usually a long string of characters that is generated by the server and sent to the client. The client then sends the API key to the server to authenticate the user.

#### X-Api key HTTP Header
The X-Api key HTTP Header is a header that is used to authenticate the user. It is usually a long string of characters that is generated by the server and sent to the client. The client then sends the X-Api key HTTP Header to the server to authenticate the user.

#### Authorization HTTP Header
The Authorization HTTP Header is a header that is used to authenticate the user. It is usually a long string of characters that is generated by the server and sent to the client. The client then sends the Authorization HTTP Header to the server to authenticate the user.

























### How to make API request?
There are two ways generally, one is GET, the second POST.

#### GET
The GET method is used to retrieve data from the server. It is used to retrieve data from a specified resource.

#### POST
The POST method is used to send data to the server. It is used to send data to a specified resource.

### How to make API response?
There are two ways generally, one is JSON, the second XML.

#### JSON
JSON stands for JavaScript Object Notation. It is a lightweight data-interchange format. It is easy for humans to read and write. It is easy for machines to parse and generate. It is based on a subset of the JavaScript Programming Language, Standard ECMA-262 3rd Edition - December 1999. JSON is a text format that is completely language independent but uses conventions that are familiar to programmers of the C-family of languages, including C, C++, C#, Java, JavaScript, Perl, Python, and many others. These properties make JSON an ideal data-interchange language.

#### XML
XML stands for Extensible Markup Language. It is a markup language that defines a set of rules for encoding documents in a format that is both human-readable and machine-readable. It is defined in the XML 1.0 Specification produced by the W3C, and several other related specifications, all gratis open standards. The design goals of XML emphasize simplicity, generality, and usability across the Internet. It is a textual data format with strong support via Unicode for different human languages. Although the design of XML focuses on documents, the language is widely used for the representation of arbitrary data structures such as those used in web services.

### How to make API endpoint?
There are two ways generally, one is REST, the second GraphQL.

#### REST
REST stands for Representational State Transfer. It is an architectural style that defines a set of constraints to be used for creating web services. Web services that conform to the REST architectural style, called RESTful Web services, provide interoperability between computer systems on the Internet. RESTful Web services allow the requesting systems to access and manipulate textual representations of Web resources by using a uniform and predefined set of stateless operations. Other kinds of Web services, such as SOAP Web services, expose their own arbitrary sets of operations.

#### GraphQL
GraphQL is a query language for APIs and a runtime for fulfilling those queries with your existing data. GraphQL provides a complete and understandable description of the data in your API, gives clients the power to ask for exactly what they need and nothing more, makes it easier to evolve APIs over time, and enables powerful developer tools.

### How to make API versioning?
There are two ways generally, one is URI, the second HTTP Header.

#### URI
URI stands for Uniform Resource Identifier. It is a string of characters used to identify a resource. It is a generalization of the Uniform Resource Locator (URL) and Universal Resource Name (URN) concepts, extending their usage beyond web addresses. It is a superset of the Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) that adds a fragment identifier to the URI syntax, allowing for the identification of a secondary resource by reference to a primary resource within the same context.

#### HTTP Header
HTTP Header is a header that is used to identify the version of the HTTP protocol that is being used. It is used to identify the version of the HTTP protocol that is being used.

### How to make API pagination?
There are two ways generally, one is Offset, the second Cursor.

#### Offset
Offset is a parameter that is used to specify the number of items to skip. It is used to specify the number of items to skip.

#### Cursor
Cursor is a parameter that is used to specify the number of items to skip. It is used to specify the number of items to skip.
